Good morning everyone.
I'm Travis Bruhn,
I'm the Imaging Technology Manager for
Mac OS X and I want to welcome
everyone to session 132,
which is Graphics &
Imaging Tips and Tricks.
What we're going to be talking about
in today's session are two things.
The first is something we think is a
great opportunity for Carbon developers.
And that is to better define
for you the interaction between
Quartz 2D and QuickDraw.
And we think there's a great
opportunity for Carbon applications
to look at using some of Mac OS X's
very powerful graphic technologies to
deliver things such as PDF support,
anti-aliased graphics,
all sorts of interesting possibilities
for features for your users.
Secondly, what we'll do is we'll
concentrate on the graphics that
are available in the Mac OS X.
We'll focus on the graphics that
on performance issues
with Quartz in general.
Quartz has a piece that we've talked
about a little bit during this
WWDC called the Quartz Compositor,
which essentially abstracts
you from the screen.
Unlike Mac OS 9 and earlier where
you had direct access to the screen,
you don't have that intent.
And therefore,
there's a little knowledge we
need to communicate with you with
regards to how to optimize your
application in this environment where
your pixels are essentially being
buffered by the Quartz Compositor.
So I'd like to get started because we
have a lot of information for you today.
So let me introduce David Gelfman,
who will continue the
presentation from here.
Hi, I'm David Gelphman.
Can you hear me?
Okay.
I'm David Gelphman.
I work in the graphics and imaging group,
primarily on printing,
but that sort of takes me
off into some other areas,
so I get to do a little
bit of work in QuickDraw,
a little bit of work in
the Quartz 2D system.
So, as I was lying awake in bed last
night thinking about this talk
and sort of anticipating it,
you might say,
I thought about the first developer
conference that I came to in 1987.
And at that conference,
Apple had just recently introduced
the Mac 2 and was new technology,
was color QuickDraw,
and Apple had sort of hidden in
the background some new stuff
they were going to show us.
It was something called Multifinder.
Does anybody remember that?
Oh, yeah.
So, yeah.
So, to me it's really exciting to
be here talking about something
besides QuickDraw in the most part,
Core Graphics, Quartz 2D as we call it.
And here's the agenda for today.
We're going to start talking about
how you can use Quartz 2D in your
Carbon-based application on Mac OS X.
The Cocoa people, for the most part,
get it free.
It's easy to use it.
They have cover routines for a lot
of the functions that you might use.
But we're going to talk about how you
can use it in your Carbon application.
That sort of leads us to talking
some about printing on Mac OS X.
Specifically,
we're going to focus a lot on the
Carbon printing graph port on Mac OS X.
It's a different kind of graph port
than you've seen before on Mac OS.
And I think you'll see that we've
done some interesting things there.
Then my colleague Ralph Bruhner
is going to follow up and talk
about performance tuning of your
application when you use Quartz,
or just when you use
anything in Carbon and Cocoa.
So just as a way of
sort of getting started,
as you've hopefully seen
during the conference,
Quartz has very powerful 2D capabilities.
The imaging model of the Quartz
2D system is consistent with
the PostScript imaging model,
which is a very powerful,
mature imaging model.
For those of you that have been
using PostScript generation yourself,
or you've been using
PostScript picture comments,
we think that you're going to
want to move over and start
using Quartz 2D instead of
generating your own PostScript.
This is going to have some
pretty significant improvements
for your application.
That is, on all the imaging devices,
when you go to print,
you're going to see really high quality,
rather than the QuickDraw drawing
that you were doing when you were
printing to raster devices in the past.
When you're using Quartz 2D,
you're going to see the
really high quality.
Now this talk is going to assume that
you have some familiarity with Quartz 2D.
We're not going to talk all
about the imaging model.
I am going to touch on some things
that are relevant specifically for
people that are probably coming
from a QuickDraw based background.
And this is just a reminder, a heads up.
Quartz 2D and Quartz the system
is a Mac OS X only technology.
It's not something that's in CarbonLib.
So I'm going to start
by giving a little demo.
So if we can get the demo
machine up over here.
So the first thing I have here
is just some really simple
drawing that we've done.
Some of this is drawn with QuickDraw,
some of it is drawn with Quartz 2D.
And I've got the little
pixie application here,
which is just sort of
a fat bits equivalent.
where we can magnify the screen,
we can come over here and look at--
hopefully people can tell which
are the lines that are drawn with
Quartz 2D and which are the lines
that are drawn with Quickdraw.
The Quickdraw line,
the ends of the lines have that
square pin that hangs down.
You can look with the Pixie application,
if you look over on the right side here
where we can see how jagged that line is.
If we move over and we look
at the next line over here,
of course, we're looking at a line that
was rendered by Quartz 2D.
If we look at the end of that line,
you can see it's a nice butt end cap.
It's anti-alias along the line.
As you're far away,
you probably can't see
the difference in quality.
But of course,
if you're looking at a screen
and you see that anti-alias line,
it really looks a lot better,
a lot sharper.
And then of course, just for fun,
I did a little dash line.
That's something that's
trivial to do using Quartz 2D.
Now this middle portion here,
I have a couple of ovals.
And I think as you get far away
it's a little harder to tell,
but I'll look at it here
with Pixie and you can see.
Now this is actually not an oval
that I've drawn using QuickDraw.
What I've done here is I've made an
oval mask region that I use to clip,
or as a clip region,
that I use to clip some drawing.
I just have a big rectangle that
I'm clipping through an oval.
Of course you get essentially the
same result if you do the oval itself.
But if you look at the edges here,
you can see how jagged it is.
If we look over here,
what I've done is I've set a clip
that's the same oval using Quartz 2D.
And I've just drawn the same rectangle.
And you can see it's nice
and anti-aliased along here.
And again, on screen you see this jagged
behavior with QuickDraw.
And of course it looks nice and smooth.
Now one of the reasons I did this as a
clip rather than just drawing an oval,
when you go to print,
if you've done clipping,
what we do is we're going to take the,
if you've done clipping with QuickDraw,
we're going to take that region
clip that you've supplied and we're
going to turn that into a path,
a Quartz 2D path.
And when we do that, well,
regions are device dependent.
They are resolution specific.
So to do that,
what we're going to do is we're
going to make a little path that's a
bunch of jagged lines just like that.
And that's what you're going to see.
Now if you draw using Quartz 2D,
what you're going to see at print time is
you're going to see a nice smooth clip.
So of course, you know,
you wouldn't really
draw an oval this way,
but this is just to give you an idea of,
what kinds of things you can do
with Quartz 2D and how that actually
translates into your real imaging.
The last thing here,
I've got some text here on the
left hand side I've drawn text with
QuickDraw and on the right hand
side I've done text with Quartz 2D.
One of the things that
especially small point sizes,
it's a little hard with Pixie to see,
I hope you can see it
when you display it.
The difference of course with the
text with Quartz 2D is anti-alias,
nice clean looking text.
One thing that's really nice is
the weight of the text as you
go through the point sizes with
this sort of waterfall text.
The weight's nice and consistent,
looks real smooth.
When you look with QuickDraw you tend
to see sort of the chunky gradations
as the text increases in point size.
On this page what I have is
a couple different things.
First of all,
I mean I've already shown you
we're mixing Quartz 2D drawing
with QuickDraw in a window here,
but I just got a picture here that I'm
drawing with QuickDraw using DrawPicture.
And I've also taken some text
using Atsui text drawing and we
can apply the usual Quartz 2D
transformations to the coordinate
system and get different effects.
I haven't done anything
particularly fancy,
but it's really trivial to rotate text.
If you want to supply other
special effects you can do that.
One thing I put on here because
I want to emphasize something
I think is really important,
we'll talk a little bit
about it in just a second,
about the details of how to do it.
But this zebra picture here is a PDF file
that I've just drawn on my page here.
And the zebra that's rotated
I've done the same way.
It's just a PDF that I'm drawing.
I've rotated the coordinate system
before I've drawn it using Quartz 2D.
But I do want to emphasize it's really
easy to support PDF in the system.
It's just essentially
like drawing a picture.
Very simple.
Very easy to do.
And even if you're not thinking of
adopting some of the other things
that we're doing with Quartz 2D,
consider seriously adding
PDF support to your application.
Now I did a little thing in here for fun.
Oops, excuse me.
Which is,
I applied a clip now to the drawing right
before I actually drew that last zebra.
So I drew a text character,
but before I actually
drew the text character,
I set the text rendering mode
in Quartz 2D to be a clip.
Then after I did that, I drew the zebra.
I just drew the PDF.
It's really easy to get
these kinds of effects.
Okay,
so let's go back over to the slides.
Can we go back over to the slides please?
Thank you.
Okay,
so I told you how easy PDF import is,
I'm going to show you how easy it is.
Now of course, this little example is
importing from a file.
I've assumed that you already have
an FSRef that points to a file.
If you don't have an FSRef,
but you have an FSSpec,
there's an easy way to get an FSRef.
From the FSRef you can create a URL,
CFURL.
This is part of Core Foundation.
Once you have a CFURL,
you can make a call that's
part of Core Graphics,
part of Quartz 2D,
CGPDF document create with URL.
You get what's called a
PDF document from that.
That's the doc that I have here.
From that we can get the media box,
which is essentially the
bounding box of the graphic here.
Get the bounding box for that.
And in this case I'm just going to draw
with that bounding box into my context,
which is the CTX parameter.
It's a Quartz 2D context.
Draw the document.
That's it.
That's to draw the first
page of a document.
You can also find out the number
of pages in the document and so on.
And there's other bounding boxes that
you can get besides the media box,
but that's it.
Now if you say, "Oh,
I don't have my data as a file
on disk or URL really," because
you can really have URLs here.
Of course, if you were in the Quartz 2D
discussion you would have heard about
data providers where you can have,
there's a generalized
mechanism so you can provide
the data for the PDF document.
So this was just the
simple one for a file.
So again,
straightforward use of Quartz 2D drawing,
even for a QuickDraw based application.
Okay, so now, how do I get started?
I'm really piped about doing this.
Let's get to it.
Okay, so the first thing, of course,
is you need to have what's called
a CG context in order to draw into.
All of the Quartz drawing
routines expect that you're
going to draw into CG context.
It's an explicit parameter that you
provide to the drawing routines.
There's no set port like
there is in QuickDraw.
You're going to pass in the context
to all of the drawing that you do.
So the CG context is something like you
might think of as a Quartz drawing port
instead of a QuickDraw drawing port.
Now, one thing that's really important to
realize is that a CG context has a
graphic state that's associated with it.
QuickDraw graph port does also.
It has the usual things, the pen size,
the font, the font size,
the background pattern,
the foreground pattern, you know,
all of that stuff.
Well, there's similar kinds of things
that are part of the graphic
state of the CG context,
such as there's a separate fill
color and a separate stroke color.
There's a separate fill color and stroke,
excuse me, separate fill color space
and stroke color space.
There's a clip.
There's a line width.
Those kinds of things.
All those parameters
are on the CG context.
And now, when you get one of these
things from QuickDraw,
or if you're using QuickDraw at
the same time that you're using a
CG context that you got for a graph port,
you should realize that those graphic
states are completely independent.
There's no sharing of the graphic state.
If you go and you set a
color on the QuickDraw port,
that's not reflected in your CG context.
So when you go to use Quartz 2D,
you're going to set the parameters in
the Quartz 2D context for your drawing.
Okay, so let's start just, I think,
some real basics.
And like I said,
I'm not going to talk a lot
about how you use Quartz 2D,
but I think these are relevant
things for developers coming
from a QuickDraw background.
The first thing is that the
coordinate system is based on the
PostScript PDF coordinate systems.
It was a fundamental decision by
Apple to follow the PDF imaging model.
This is the coordinate system
in the PDF imaging model.
Standard Cartesian coordinates:
X goes to the right,
across the screen or across the page,
Y goes up, and the origin is in the lower
left corner of the window,
or of the port, rather, or of the page.
Okay?
So this is what it looks like.
This is the relationship
between the coordinate systems,
the QuickDraw coordinate system,
the Quartz2D coordinate system,
sort of the standard relationship when
you get a CG graphics context for a port.
The QuickDraw coordinate system,
as always, top left corner, Quartz2D,
bottom left corner, Y going up.
Now the relationship between
the origins is initially,
at least if you haven't
changed the port origin,
the relationship between the origins
is based on the port rect height.
That's the height of the port.
So there's a couple issues if you're
used to drawing with QuickDraw.
Apps are used to that QuickDraw
coordinate system where it's in
the top left corner of the port.
Event coordinates are returned in
the QuickDraw coordinate system.
In some apps,
when they switch over to using
the Quartz 2D imaging system,
they sort of want to keep using
that top left corner with the
coordinate system flipped.
Okay, well there's a couple ideas.
One is, you can actually transform
your coordinates on the fly
yourself if you want to.
The relationship between the
QuickDraw coordinate system and
the Quartz 2D coordinate system
I showed you on the picture before,
you can calculate the port bounds height,
you can compute from a given QuickDraw Y,
you can compute a Y that would
be suitable for a Quartz 2D
coordinate system drawing.
So you can do that yourself.
Now, there's some disadvantage of just
doing this kind of transformation.
And one of them is that,
as you start rotating,
and scaling the Quartz
2D coordinate system,
something that you
can't do with QuickDraw,
now this kind of transformation
gets a little messy because now your
coordinate system is transformed.
So, just some other ideas.
Here's what I call approach B,
which was using Quartz itself to
do coordinate transforms for you.
Now, when you draw with the
Quartz 2D coordinate system,
you're drawing in what's
called user space,
and that's malleable by the application.
You can scale it, translate it, rotate,
skew it, do whatever.
And Quartz 2D is always
doing transformations,
and it transforms on user space
coordinates that are supplied by
your application when you draw,
into device space,
or into the space of the actual
device you're drawing on,
be it a printer, be it on screen,
whatever.
Now, you can piggyback off of those
transformations that Quartz
2D is already doing for you,
by simply making your own matrix that
you can cat to what's called the CTM,
the current transformation matrix
from user space into device space.
You can piggyback off
those transformations,
and that's what I'm doing here.
So I make up a transform.
There's in CTM,
there's in the device space,
and then I make up a transform.
So I make up a transform.
I'm going to use the CGAffineTransform.h.
There's a whole bunch of stuff
about transforms you can read about.
And you can make a translation transform.
In this case, I'm translating by the
port-bounds height.
That's the thing that connects the
QuickDraw origin to the Core graphics,
to the Quartz 2D origin.
And then, in addition,
I'm going to do a further
transform on that transform,
by scaling it, by flipping it.
So I made y minus y.
So at that point, if I actually take that
transform that I built up,
this QD transform that I built up,
and I can cap that to the
coordinate system that's
already part of my context here,
represented by my context parameter here,
now I have a flipped coordinate system,
and I have the origin of my
Quartz coordinate system in the
top left corner of the port.
Okay?
Well, it's all great.
Start drawing your graphics.
You do your line art.
You do your ovals.
You do whatever.
Well, wait a minute.
When I go and I start
drawing text using Atsui,
I find that I've got a little problem.
I've got a little problem here,
which is my text is flipped.
Because we flipped the coordinate system,
and when you draw text with
Atsui into a CG context,
they're expecting upright
coordinate systems,
and that's flipped.
OK, well, it's a tips and tricks.
So here's maybe something
you can consider.
You could actually modify
the approach a little bit.
It's a little bit of a pain.
But what you can do is
before you draw your text,
you unflip the coordinate system.
So normally you're going to draw
into a flipped coordinate system.
But before you go draw in the text,
you're going to unflip it.
The only thing you have to do
is unflip the coordinate system.
At that point,
you want to use minus y-coordinates
instead of y-coordinates because
now you've got the origin in the
top left corner and y goes down.
So we'll be using minus y-coordinates.
But that's what's involved there.
Okay, now let me just emphasize,
the only reason that you would
need to consider using some of
these approaches is if you want
the Quartz 2D coordinate system,
when you go to draw,
to match the QuickDraw coordinate
system that you're familiar with.
If you're comfortable drawing
with an upright coordinate system,
go for it.
Don't bother with all of this.
One other thing to say is,
in CGaffinetransform.h,
in the header file,
there are some additional transforms
that let you take points and
transform them through the matrix to
get a new point that's transformed.
So if you'd rather do your
coordinate transformations using
CG by transforming the coordinates,
not by transforming the coordinate
system that's part of the CG context,
you can do that yourself also.
Let's talk just for a
second about text drawing.
Hopefully you've had an opportunity
to go to some of the text drawing,
Carbon text drawing sessions
here at the conference.
We discourage use of the low
level Quartz API for drawing text.
It's really not suitable
for international text.
International text,
I mean if you've seen some of these demos
and the kinds of things that people need
to be able to do with international text,
all of that is layered on top
of the Quartz 2D imaging system,
but they are really
providing the facilities for
drawing international text.
So, the recommendation is look
at and use ATSUI and MLTE for
drawing text into a CG context.
And they've talked a little bit about
how to do that in those sessions.
Just to give you an idea of
how straightforward it is,
if you're already familiar
with using Atsui text drawing,
you know that you're going to use
a layout for drawing your text.
All you need to do is
add a tag to that layout.
That's what I'm doing
here in this sample code.
Adding a tag to the layout,
then I actually draw the text
the way I otherwise would have.
The tag that I'm adding just says
that I'm adding a CG context and
I pass a pointer to that context.
So I'm supplying the context to Atsui.
Now all of the coordinate system
transformations and so on,
the color, all of those things are
used from the CG context,
assuming for example the color you
haven't made as part of your layout.
That would override the color
that would be in the CG context.
Okay, so I've given you a bit of an idea
about some of the issues maybe
of drawing with a CG context.
How do you get one?
Well, there's a routine,
create CG context for port.
What that does is, you give it a port,
it gives you a CG context for that.
You can start drawing
into that CG context.
There's a couple other helper
routines that you may need to use.
One of them, I can't say these
without looking at them,
sorry.
Sync CG context origin with port.
What that does is, when you call that,
it resets the current transformation
matrix on the context of the default.
That removes any scaling or anything
that you might have provided.
It then resets the CG context origin so
that it has that relationship between the
port origin and the CG context origin.
So, for example, if you've done,
a set origin in QuickDraw, now,
you want to,
and you want to tell the CG context
that you're using associated with
that port that you've done that,
that's when you call this routine.
Then there's also a clip
CG context to region,
where you supply a clipping
region and that will reset the
clip on the CG context to that
that you're supplying here.
Okay, so when would you do these things?
Window resizing, so you've made your
window bigger or smaller,
you're going to have to reset the clip.
Because the vis region on the window,
or the clipping region rather,
on the window, it's gotten larger,
you want to sync that up,
you want to tell the CG context
that you've got a bigger clip.
And then if you're scrolling or for other
reasons you changed the port origin,
now you need to synchronize your
CG context with the port origin.
Alright, well I'm mostly a printing guy,
so I've got to talk about printing.
What about printing?
So, I've sort of divided up
the kinds of applications,
these again are Carbon applications.
I've divided them up
into three categories.
The first category is our favorite
kind of application on Mac OS X.
That's an application that
when imaging during printing,
the only thing that you're
drawing into the printing port,
so to speak, or the only thing that
you're trying to image,
is something, or all the content is
drawn using only Quartz 2D.
So, that's the first type of application.
So,
all the content is imaged with Quartz 2D.
And you say, well, you know,
maybe I'd like to do that,
but I have all this legacy
data that's sitting around.
I've got these pic files,
and I've got to use Draw Picture.
Well, we recognize that that's an issue,
and so what we're adding to Mac OS X,
coming soon, is a routine that allows you
to take a QuickDraw picture and
draw that into a CG context.
And I have a little demo
that's sort of like doing that,
and you'll get a chance to see that.
Now, we want to hear from you about what
other kinds of QuickDraw content,
other things that you're doing,
other things you're drawing
into a graph port that,
hey, right now, you don't know how to
draw into a CG context.
Because if that's what's preventing
you from moving over to Quartz,
we want to know what that is,
and we want to fix that.
And, by the way, you know,
you probably can do it.
We just need to give you some
ideas about how to do it,
and maybe we can add some more
convenience things in the future.
Okay,
so that's the first type of application,
your application soon to be,
only imaging using
Quartz 2D when printing.
Alright,
second type of application is what
I'll call a QuickDraw only app.
It's the vast majority of
Carbon applications today.
It's what you were doing on
9 when you were printing,
you were drawing with
QuickDraw in some fashion.
And then the third type is a type
that we want to talk about also,
which are applications that
are going to mix their drawing.
So they draw with both QuickDraw imaging
and Quartz 2D imaging at print time.
Okay, and that might be an application,
for example, you say, "Well,
I don't really want to
move over to Quartz 2D,
but man, I like this PDF import.
I really want to do that." Or,
maybe you want to do almost
everything with Quartz 2D,
but there's still a little bit of
QuickDraw stuff that you haven't
quite gotten weaned off of.
Okay, so I'm going to talk about printing
issues with these three types
of applications in that order.
Now before I do so,
I need to say a little bit, I mean,
I know everybody knows about the
printing architecture on Mac OS X,
and I'm boring everybody.
But it just helps me to
remind myself how it works.
So printing architecture on Mac OS X,
it's really completely different
than it is on Mac OS 8 and 9.
We've totally rewritten
the back end of printing,
the front end of printing,
it's all totally different.
The APIs are similar,
very similar for Carbon Apps,
but we've really rewritten the
underlying printing system.
So, a couple things that are
important to know about it.
The printing system completely
leverages Quartz 2D when
actually both at imaging time,
at spool time,
it's built into the printing system.
All the printing that you do generates
a PDF spool file as an intermediate
representation for the graphics
that you draw in your application.
It's the same printing port
both for raster printing and
for post-script printing.
You don't have to worry
about driver X and driver Y.
It's the same graph port,
has the same characteristics.
Both of those, regardless of what the
back-end printing device is,
we're going to spool out a PDF.
Now the good thing about this,
I think all your customers
are going to like,
all our customers are going to like,
is you're going to get high quality
imaging on all printing devices.
Okay?
So, again,
I'm talking about an application
that only does Quartz 2D
imaging during printing.
Now, these are Carbon applications,
and by default the printing system
is set up so that when you actually
start printing your document,
we're expecting to hand
you a QuickDraw graph port,
because Carbon, QuickDraw,
people think of them together,
that's the default graphics context that
you get at the time that you go to draw,
is QuickDraw.
So before you actually start printing,
you need to tell the imaging
system that you're going to
use Core Graphics Quartz 2D.
Those are the same thing.
So what I have here is we need to create
a CFArray that has one element in it,
and that one element is a
CFString that we've predefined called
KPM Graphics Context Core Graphics.
Okay, you're going to draw with
Core Graphics Quartz 2D when
you're imaging at print time.
That's all you're going to do.
So before you actually call this
routine PM Session Begin Document,
which is beginning the printing process,
before you do that,
you need to set up the
system to set up this array,
you need to call a routine that tells
the printing system that's the format
and that's the type of graphics
context that you're going to draw with.
So you're going to say PM Session
Set Document Format Generation with
the print session you got when
you created your print session.
And then you pass in that
you want to do format PDF,
which by the way is the default,
but you're reinforcing that,
and you're going to pass in
this graphics context array.
Then you release that array,
because we hang on to it, you release it.
This is a classic way of
using Core Foundation.
Okay, so now you've told the printing
system that you're going
to use Quartz 2D at imaging
So, how do you get your graphics
context that's associated with
the printing system at print time?
Well, you ask the printing system.
This is just what you would do if
you weren't using Core Graphics.
It's a little bit different
because now you're saying,
okay, I want the Core Graphics context
from the Get Graphics context,
PM Session Get Graphics context.
Okay?
Now you have a context,
a CG context that you can
draw into using Quartz 2D.
You can't draw any QuickDraw.
You can only draw into that
Quartz 2D graphics context.
Alright,
one thing that's different about the
graphics context in the coordinate
system that's different than you might
be familiar with with Carbon printing,
that the origin of the coordinate system
is the lower left corner of the sheet.
Okay?
Now, when you're doing Carbon printing,
you're probably familiar with the
fact that the origin of the coordinate
system is the top left corner of
the imageable area of the page.
So this is a significant difference.
Not only is it the bottom left corner,
it's not the bottom left
corner of the imageable area,
it's the bottom left corner of the sheet.
Thank you.
Okay, now that's for your application
that's drawing only using Quartz 2D.
So what about your application
that's drawing using only QuickDraw,
or some QuickDraw?
Let's start with the only QuickDraw.
Now, as I said,
the spool file that we generate during
printing is this PDF spool file.
Now, QuickDraw applications,
they don't know how to generate PDF.
So, what we do during the printing
system is we translate the
QuickDraw imaging that you do into
the port into the Core graphics,
Quartz 2D drawing,
and we're going to generate
that spool file for you.
Now,
how do you actually get your graph port?
You do it the same way as you do,
you don't need to set call,
you don't need to set this up
before you start your printing,
but after each page, PM session,
begin page call, after that,
you're going to go and you're
going to get your graphics context,
which is going to be a QuickDraw port,
and you're going to image into that.
Now, let's talk about that port,
because that port is completely unlike
any graph port you've seen before.
It's something like a hybrid QuickDraw
raster driver printing port and a
port that's a little bit different.
PostScript-like graph board.
So,
I jumped ahead a little bit a second ago.
Because we need to have PDF spool file,
of course,
applications that draw with Quartz
2D drawing can produce that natively
by just using Quartz 2D directly.
However, during print time,
we need to translate any
QuickDraw drawing that you
do into Quartz 2D drawing and
therefore generate PDF from that.
This is true both for QuickDraw,
pure QuickDraw applications,
and also applications that mix
both QuickDraw and Quartz 2D.
We have to translate the Quartz,
the QuickDraw portion
into Quartz 2D drawing.
Here's what that looks like.
You do your QuickDraw imaging calls.
We replace the QuickDraw port bottlenecks
with bottlenecks that translate that
QuickDraw drawing into Quartz 2D drawing.
So that's that second box, that blue box,
that's the translator.
That turns into Quartz 2D
imaging calls and as you know,
or hope you know by now,
the Quartz 2D imaging system can produce
from those drawing calls a PDF file.
Okay, well the process of doing this
translation is very similar to
doing this kind of thing that we've
done with PostScript printing with
the LaserWriter driver for years.
The Quartz 2D imaging model is
essentially the PostScript imaging model.
What we've done is we've borrowed
techniques that we've used with
the LaserWriter 8 driver to do
this translation from QuickDraw
into the Quartz 2D imaging model.
We've tried to get results that
are consistent with the LaserWriter
8 driver wherever possible,
because that's something
that's very familiar to people.
We think that's a win for
you and for customers.
Alright, so I'm going to talk about
not only similarities with
the LaserWriter 8 driver,
but also differences.
And again, let me just say,
what we're talking about is the
translation on Mac OS X from the
QuickDraw drawing that your application
does into the printing graph port,
into Quartz 2D drawing, into PDF.
Okay?
So, we use that same general approach
like we did for LaserWriter 8.
We're using the same line layout
algorithms that we use for LaserWriter 8.
Line layout algorithms are used
because frequently in QuickDraw,
the metrics are different in your
QuickDraw fonts and so on than
they are in both PostScript for
LaserWriter 8 and in PDF.
So, if you're using integer font widths,
for example, well, we're going to turn
those into fractional,
usage of fractional widths on fonts.
We do layout in order to
adjust the differences.
With regard to images,
we have the same QuickDraw transfer mode
support that we have in LaserWriter 8.
For 1-bit images,
we support all the same.
We support all the transfer modes
except the XOR transfer modes,
which we can't support.
For deep PIX maps,
anything deeper than 1-bit,
we support the source copy mode.
We don't support any of
the other transfer modes.
However, coming soon,
we're going to have support for the
QuickDraw transparent transfer mode.
Transparent transfer mode is where
the background color in the graph
port is used as a transparent color.
So, any pixels in your image that
have the same color as the
background color in the graph port,
they're transparent.
when you draw your image.
Okay, more similarities to the
LaserWriter 8 driver.
We do pattern substitution.
So if your application
draws with patterns,
which, by the way,
you actually always are because the port
has a pattern in there that's using for
all your drawing when you do line art,
what we do is we map some of the patterns
into grayscale colors or grayg levels.
I hope this is clear what's
happening here in the slide.
It's certainly clearer in the front
of the room maybe than the back,
but on the top I've got
several different patterns.
Let's see what that looks like,
dot patterns.
And what we do is for certain
combinations of the dot patterns,
we map those into gray levels.
So you can see a much smoother
appearance in the drawing.
And by the way, of course,
if there is a real pattern,
like there is in this brick pattern,
we're going to generate that pattern.
Okay, some other similarities
with LaserWriter 8.
We also support many of the
picture comments that are supported
during printing on Mac OS 8.9.
So some of them are the text
alignment picture comments,
text rotation and flipping,
polygon smoothing where you
can draw with cubic beziers,
graphics rotation where you can have
different kinds of QuickDraw graphics
and before you draw your graphics you
can tell the imaging system to rotate.
You can't do this on screen,
but the printing system
knows how to deal with that.
Dash lines, fractional width lines,
so something other than
the normal pen sizes,
but fractions of a pen.
And also color sync support.
So on Mac OS 8.9 you could tag
your data with picture comments
that provided color sync profiles.
And we respect those and we'll use
those color sync profiles to draw
the graphics as calibrated color
if you use those picture comments.
I have some examples of a
couple of these things in the
little demo I'm going to do.
So, differences from LaserOtter 8.
Well, I think the big one that probably
many people run into is that
PostScript picture comments
are not supported when you're
printing in this print graph board.
There's no way to take these
PostScript picture comments
and turn them into PDF without
having a PostScript interpreter.
We don't have a PostScript interpreter
in the PDF printing system.
So the PostScript picture comments
that you would generate are ignored.
They're dropped on the floor.
We don't do anything with them.
Instead, in this manner,
we act something more
like a QuickDraw driver,
what you might be familiar
with on Mac OS 8 and 9,
where the portion,
if you say PostScript begin and then
you draw with some QuickDraw and you
draw some PostScript picture comments
and then you say PostScript end,
a raster driver on Mac OS 8 and 9 uses
the QuickDraw drawing at that point.
And that's what we do here on Mac OS X.
Because we're not a PostScript driver,
we use the QuickDraw representation.
So that also means, for example,
if you have an EPS preview
that you're doing,
you don't just want to say
PostScript begin and emit a whole
bunch of PostScript code and end.
You want to draw that preview image also.
And we will use that preview
image instead of the EPS data.
Okay,
well that's one of the big differences.
There's also another difference
in something we think is better
and hopefully going to help you.
That is, we've added for the first time
to a PostScript type of driver,
we've added support
for QuickDraw regions.
That is, you can have a QuickDraw
region that you clip with,
that you fill, that you frame.
Arbitrary regions are supported.
Now, of course,
they're device dependent and you
might be unhappy with some of
the results you get and that's of
course one of the reasons why we're
pushing you toward using Quartz 2D,
but we are supporting it.
So that's a good thing.
Another thing is that we've
basically fixed a bug,
which is that now when you
draw with your patterns,
QuickDraw patterns
respect the port origin.
LaserRotter8 driver didn't respect
the port origin when doing patterns.
We fixed that.
So let's say you had
your ducts like this,
you had your ducts all lined up,
and you were drawing with the
origin at the corner of the graphic.
With the LaserRotter8 driver,
we're going to use the
original 0-0 port origin.
With the printing system on Mac OS X,
we're going to respect the port origin,
so you'll get your ducts
in the right place.
Okay,
let's move over to the demo machine.
So I'm going to maybe hide Pixie.
So, I have a couple of images
that I want to show you.
This is a little
application that I wrote.
It's essentially leveraging this draw
picture into CG context routine that
I told you was coming soon in Mac OS X.
On the left hand side here
I have a picture that I found on,
actually I don't know
where I found this picture,
a picture that came to me.
And this is drawn using draw picture.
On the right hand side in this window,
the same picture is drawn
using Core graphics,
using Quartz 2D.
It's essentially drawn through a port
which has its bottlenecks replaced
as they would be during printing.
So, I hope you can see some of these,
some of the features of this.
First of all, we do pattern substitution.
Let me use the mouse here
to maybe point a little bit.
Over here, this is a normal QuickDraw
pattern that gets substituted
with the gray level here.
All the text here,
all the text is anti-aliased.
All of the graphics are anti-aliased.
This is the QuickDraw version.
Of course,
over here is the Quartz 2D drawing.
What else do we have here
that might be of interest?
Anyway, of course the goal here is,
at print time,
we want to get the best quality we can.
And we think translating this into Quartz
2D is going to give you better quality,
even when you're using QuickDraw.
I've got a couple others.
Oh, one thing that's sort of fun,
I want to mention,
one thing I added to this little app is,
oh, a little save as PDF because this
window on the right hand side
here is drawn using Quartz 2D,
if I create a PDF context rather
than getting the context for
the window and I do that same
drawing into that PDF context,
I get a PDF file.
So you can make it really easy to
get PDF out from your application.
Here's another drawing.
This is a highway map that we got.
Again,
here's the QuickDraw version of that.
There's a couple things
that are shown here.
You can also see,
if I can bring this up here,
you can also see pattern
substitution going on here.
Here's the QuickDraw pattern.
Over here is a nice smooth gray scale.
The lines of the map here
are drawn using polygons,
but at print time, the polygon picture
comments are being used.
So, we interpret those picture comments
and now you get nice smooth lines.
Not only anti-alias,
but smoothed out because
they're drawn as Beziers.
All the text is anti-alias,
so if you look at the text in here,
over here, the text looks a lot better.
And, oh, look, here's some rotated text.
[Transcript missing]
About ColorSync, the left hand side I've
got a pic that's an image.
It's actually using,
this particular one's an extreme example.
It's using the ColorSync
picture comments.
And I'm drawing this with DrawPicture.
There is a DrawMatch picture
that will let the imaging system
handle that with QuickDraw,
but I'm just using DrawPicture here.
And over here on the right,
I'm not using Draw Picture, I'm using,
or rendering using Quartz 2D and it
picks up the ColorSync picture comments
and draws in the calibrated color space.
Somebody's clapping good.
I like that.
One of the things, this is sort of,
you know,
I'd like to add a few tips and tricks
since that's the way we're advertised.
One of them I think,
You might be interested in this.
This is a PDF that we're generating
for one of those graphics that I had.
And when you start to look, you know,
if you're familiar with PDF,
then you might be
interested in looking at it.
If you're not familiar,
you might be interested in
learning a little bit about
the PDF that we generate.
However, for performance reasons
and file size reasons,
we're generating PDF that has many of
the streams in the PDF file compressed.
It's using the FLATE encoding.
So here's the data that
represents the PDF data that's
generated by the printing system.
And it's compressed.
Well, for developers we thought, okay,
maybe it would be helpful to you
if you want to look at that data
to not have it be compressed.
And I wrote a little app here that's
a printing preferences app that,
you know, talk about a couple of the
preferences that are on here.
So by default the printing system
is going to compress the PDF data
as it's generating the spool file.
And you can turn that off with
this little application if
you uncheck it and save that.
Then when you go to print your PDF,
if you go to look at the PDF,
you'll see it's not
compressed any longer.
You can actually look
at it in clear text.
Just another couple of things
about this particular application.
If you were in Paul Danbold's
talk yesterday,
you learned that the printing system
can generate something that's called
a job copy for the PostScript data
that's being sent to the output device.
So for debugging purposes,
it's not a save to
PostScript functionality
that a user would use.
But I know we in the printing team
and I think a lot of developers
appreciate the ability to see what
PostScript's being sent to the
printer as part of the printing path,
whether if you're generating your own
PostScript in some situations or you
just want to understand what's going on.
You can turn this on.
You can choose a location.
By default it's in /temp.
That location needs to be writable
by all just because of the
way the printing system's run.
You can set a new printing
-- a new location for these.
The files that get generated
are based on the job name.
So you really do get distinct files for
each print job and you can go and find
them and look at them if you need to.
This last thing is a job status
log -- printing status log,
rather.
And this is basically the data
that's coming back from the
PostScript printer module that gets
logged if you turn this feature on
and it goes into the temp directory.
So this would be a very specialized
developer that would need this.
You want to see what's coming back from
the printer from the PostScript job
module -- the PostScript printer module.
But you can also turn that on.
Okay.
So I uncheck this and I'm going to save
that and I'm going to quit this and
I'm going to go and I'm going to print.
And now this is something
I do and I think other people
might find this interesting.
Also, which is it's very easy to get
the PDF from the printing system.
You just say print preview.
There's the PDF file.
Well,
I like to look at that all the time.
So what you can do here --
this is just project builder.
Open, drag that.
There it is.
Open it.
Okay now, remember I checked on don't
compress the PDF stream.
So here is the PDF stream
from that printing.
Okay,
so for those that are familiar with PDF,
we're just drawing an image here,
we're setting up a coordinate system,
drawing an image,
but it's very easy to get that.
Let me just see if there's
anything else I want to talk about.
I think that's it.
Should we go back to slides?
Thank you.
Okay, so we've talked about what happens
when you draw with QuickDraw and print.
Let's talk about if you're drawing
with QuickDraw and Quartz 2D and doing
Quartz 2D imaging during printing.
So, I think the most important thing that
a number of developers have run into is
that this routine that I talked about,
Create CG Context for Port,
if the port that you have is the port
you got from the printing system,
this routine fails.
You get an error.
You can't get a
CG context from that port.
Now the reason is, as I've talked about,
the printing system itself that's
translating QuickDraw graphics
into Core graphics drawing,
into Quartz 2D drawing,
the printing system has a
CG context associated with this
translation that it's doing.
Now if you start drawing
into that yourself,
there's some synchronization
problems that we have.
Because the printing system thinks
that it owns that CG context and it can
change the color and it can change the
clip and it can do all the stuff in it.
If you start going in
and doing those things,
we can't do our job.
So to work properly doing this,
we need to have careful state
management of QuickDraw and
Quartz 2D drawing at print.
Now we're working really
hard to resolve these issues.
Let's talk about what
it's going to look like.
Well,
we need to enforce some kind of modality
into this to separate the drawing that
you might do into this CG context from
the drawing that the QuickDraw to Quartz
2D translator would do at print time.
So, we've added some routines,
or we are adding routines
to Mac OS X in the future.
These are not in Mac OS X version 10.0.x.
The routines are QD_begin_cgcontext
and QD_end_cgcontext.
Now these routines,
unlike the Get Context Report,
these routines work both for
screen drawing and for printing.
So, if you're only doing screen drawing,
you can keep using this CG context,
Create Context Report,
but if you're doing printing,
you want to use these new routines.
Now,
in order to enforce the fact that we have
this modality where you're doing your,
you're doing your QuickDraw CG drawing,
and then you're doing
your QuickDraw drawing,
and then you're doing your
Core Graphics drawing,
and then you're doing
your QuickDraw drawing,
in order to enforce this,
when you actually call
these routines on a port,
we take the bottlenecks in the port,
the imaging bottlenecks in the port,
and we make them non-drawing bottlenecks.
Okay?
So, both on screen and printing,
QuickDraw drawing that goes on
in between the QD_begin_cgcontext
and QD_end_cgcontext,
that QuickDraw drawing will
be in the same context.
So, that's why it's going to be ignored.
One other thing is, when you call CG,
excuse me, QD_end_cgcontext,
that CG context that you got
from the begin routine goes away.
You have to get a new one next time you
want to do your drawing with Quartz 2D.
Okay, sounds hard, it's not.
Here's the way it looks.
So, you start,
you don't have a context for the,
you don't have a context to draw into.
You have a port,
you call QD_begin_cgcontext.
Pass in the port,
you pass in the pointer to your context,
you get a context back.
So, now you go and you do some
drawing using Quartz 2D.
So, in this case, I'm just using the
CG context draw PDF document,
similar to what I did before
on drawing a PDF document.
So,
you're done drawing your PDF document,
you're done for now drawing
your Quartz 2D content,
and you now are going to draw some
QuickDraw content of whatever sort.
You call QD_end_cgcontext,
you pass in the port,
you pass in the pointer to the context,
that you had,
that you got from the begin routine.
Now that value that you
get back from this routine,
that context is null.
You can't draw to that context anymore.
If you have another way
of hanging on to that,
you're going to be really surprised
when you try and draw into that.
Okay, so now you do your copy bits
or whatever other QuickDraw
imaging that you need to do.
It's time to do some more
Core graphics drawing,
some more drawing with Quartz 2D.
You go, you get your context again.
Now,
when you go to get the context again,
it's important to know
the graphics state,
the G state on that context is
reset to an initial G state.
So it doesn't remember whatever
transformations you might have
done between the last time
you used begin and CG context.
So you get it again,
you do some more Quartz
2D imaging and so on.
Okay, now we want you to start moving
over to this style if you're
using the Quartz 2D system.
And so in order to facilitate that,
we've written some code that you
can link into your application.
You can start using this style rather
than using the Create Context Report.
Again, this is this printing issue.
So these routines work both,
the real routines that are going to be
in the future version of Mac OS X work
both on screen and print time.
This linkable code does
not enable printing,
but it lets you move your use
of core graphics of Quartz 2D
over to this style of mixing
both QuickDraw and core graphics.
So again,
if you're only drawing with QuickDraw or
if you're only drawing with Quartz 2D,
this does not apply.
So we have some linkable code.
It does not enable printing.
It doesn't install these
bottlenecks that dummy out the
QuickDraw drawing in between,
but it lets you get going.
Okay, well, tips and tricks.
I hope I gave you a little bit of
a tip or a trick with the demo,
but let's talk about some printing tips.
First thing, number one, most important,
don't expect that when
you say PostScript begin,
draw some picture comments,
PostScript end,
that that's going to generate PostScript.
You need to do something really special.
Paul Danbold talked about how to
do that in the printing session.
So you need to do something
really special if you want to
generate your own PostScript.
By default, the printing system doesn't
generate PostScript,
won't let you generate PostScript, okay?
So in addition,
don't expect that you can use
PostScript begin and PostScript end
to hide quick draw drawing.
Lots of applications do
this on Mac OS 8 and 9.
They say, ah, well,
it's the laser writer driver, you know,
so it's not going to, you know,
pay attention to the quick
draw drawing that I'm doing in
between PostScript begin and end.
Hey, we recognize that quick draw,
and we're going to image it, okay?
So the next one here is if you're
someone who likes to actually
go in and call the bottlenecks,
the quick draw bottlenecks directly,
make sure you check that graph port.
Make sure that those bottlenecks are
nil or don't exist already in the graph
port before you go off and call standard
bits or standard text or whatever.
Because if there's port bottlenecks,
you want to chain any
calling that you make,
[Transcript missing]
You just get garbage
probably on Mac OS 8 and 9.
You crash on Mac OS X.
Okay, now there's some documentation
that we have out there on the
Mac OS X printing graph port.
It's already been written.
It's already been out there for probably,
I don't know, maybe even 10 years,
but close to it.
And that's the documentation
that's in Appendix B,
using Picture Comments for printing.
Pretty much what it
says in there is true,
modified by some of the
things I've said here.
There are some picture
comments in there that say,
"Oh, these are going away.
You don't want to be using these." Hey,
these went away.
You don't want to be using those.
Okay?
Now coming soon we're working on a
tech note that's specifically about
the Mac OS X printing graph board.
It's going to contain the material
that I have in this talk expanded.
Okay,
so let me just give you a summary so far.
We hope you see that there's both my talk
and obviously talks earlier in the week
with far more impressive things in them.
You can really do some cool
stuff with Quartz 2D in
Carbon on Mac OS X in Carbon.
The printing graph port,
it's not like a graph
port you saw before.
It recognizes all these picture comments,
but it's not a PostScript graph port.
It's not a QuickDraw graph port.
It's this sort of hybrid.
And just to emphasize again,
applications can mix Quartz 2D and
QuickDraw drawing content on screen
and at print time the mixing is
going to take the form of these
new routines that I've described.
Okay, that's the summary of what
I've given you so far.
What about making it all go fast?
And to talk about that,
my colleague Ralph Bruhner
on the graphics team.
Okay.
So, I will talk about Quartz performance
tuning and in the next 15 minutes
you will learn something about how
to improve your graphics speed,
what to do about memory usage
and most importantly how to
find the performance problems.
First I'd like to say something about
how the architecture in Mac OS X works,
the graphics architecture.
On Mac OS X there is a process running in
the background called the Windows Server.
That process is responsible for
managing screen real estate.
So when an application creates a window,
it will go and send a message
to the Windows Server and say,
"Well, I need a window that size,
that spot." And the Windows Server will
go and allocate a buffer for that window,
map it into shared memory
with that application,
and then the application can
go and draw into these bits.
Well,
when the application is done drawing,
it sends again a message to
the Windows Server and says,
"Okay, now here are the new bits.
I want to put them on screen."
And the Windows Server will do that.
The important concept here is that
the window has a backing store.
So all your content is buffered
and that has some implications
for how you do graphics.
First of all,
what it gives that to you is
The Windows Server is able to mix
the content of your application with
the content of any other application.
So that enables things like
the drop shadows you see,
genie effects,
scalable dock and things like that.
Now, you have to be aware that whenever
you do a manipulation of your window,
that is no longer as lightweight
as it was under OS 9.
Because pretty much everything
you do with windows that affects
the window geometry is actually a
message that goes over to a different
process and tells it what to do.
One other implication is that
window buffers use a bit of memory.
So the last thing you want
to do is allocate a lot of
windows which are not on screen,
but just eat up some memory.
So, two tips here.
One is primarily for Cocoa applications.
It's a bad idea to go allocate a window
at a certain size and immediately
resize it to a different size.
Because that essentially means the
Windows server will allocate some memory,
then it will get a request, well,
toss that away, I really changed my mind,
I want something else.
And that is fairly common when you
have a default size in your Nib file
and then set it to the window size
that the user set it last time to.
So if you can avoid that,
that is a nice performance gain.
Something from the
Carbon side of the world:
some Carbon applications on 9
use an off-screen G-World to
buffer the window content.
So on 10,
this is counterproductive because
you already have a buffer,
so you just double the memory size for
the window and you do an additional copy.
So if you can avoid that, that helps too.
Another thing for Cocoa applications,
in the interface builder you have
this little flag that says you
can make the window one shot.
Well, one shot windows have the property
that when they go off screen,
the buffer is automatically discarded,
and when it comes on screen again,
the application gets a redraw
message to rebuild the content.
So, whenever possible,
you should use that.
Most times it's far cheaper to redraw
the content of the window than swapping
it back in from the small file.
Okay, let's talk about drawing.
Well, the key message about drawing is,
in today's world,
graphic speed is essentially a
function of memory bandwidth.
It's the number of pixels you touch.
It doesn't really matter anymore what
you're actually doing with these pixels.
So, the first thing you want to
avoid is multiple drawing.
Like, you draw your window with,
you fill it with a pinstripe pattern,
and then you put a big white
rectangle on top of it to have
a background for your text.
So if you can avoid the pinstripe
drawing at the first place,
that is a nice performance gain.
And the other thing that ties
in with the architecture of the
Windows Server I mentioned before
is avoid unnecessary flushing.
So whenever you're done
with drawing something,
that message gets sent to the
Windows Server to tell it,
well, put this stuff on screen.
Now, it's a fairly common bug
that you flush too often.
You have essentially,
your drawing is half done,
and then somewhere in your
code path a flush happens.
And what that means is unfinished
drawing appears on screen.
and then right after that the complete
drawing shows up causing flickering.
So you want to avoid that,
try to avoid that as much as possible.
Now, one nice thing about the
Windows Server is all updates you
do are synced to the CRT beam,
so you really get totally smooth
graphics if you play an animation.
You get the exact 75 Hz of
your monitor or whatever.
And that's the reason why dragging the
window around on OS X is really smooth.
However, this can backfire for you.
If you flush too much,
that mechanism will actually ensure that
the unfinished drawing stays on screen
for long enough for the user to notice.
So,
it might be a good idea to look at that.
So in today's world, OS X.0.x,
window buffers live in main memory.
But however,
it is a good idea not to rely on that.
There may be changes coming.
To move the window buffers
on the graphics card,
or maybe they get compressed,
or any other performance
optimizations we might think of.
So, relying on the fact that the window
buffer is in main memory today is
not such a future-proof strategy.
So, what you want to avoid is
touching the window bits directly.
Whenever possible, use QuickDraw,
QuickTime,
Quartz 2D to produce your content.
So this here on the slide,
essentially getting the port for your
window and then the pick space address.
That's whenever possible,
you should avoid that.
Well, there are definitely
cases where you have to.
So I can imagine if you write
an emulator for something,
then you probably want
to produce your own bits.
So, if you do,
we'd like to hear from you.
We may come up with some APIs to
enable that without breaking
the performance optimizations
we're going to do in the future.
Okay, a word about the velocity engine.
On OS X, we have a certain number of
functions inside the graphics system
that are optimized for the G4.
And this gives, in some cases,
really significant speedups.
In fact, whenever we go and
To vectorize one of these routines,
we usually get more than 2x out of it.
And in some extreme cases,
we saw something like 17x speedups.
Well, for your drawing to
actually make use of that,
there's essentially
one hint to give here,
which is whenever you
produce your own bitmaps,
like you create a CG bitmap context
or you create a QuickDraw G-World and
then hand that to the graphics system,
make the row bytes a multiple of 16,
which is the vector
length on the G4 chip.
That will enable more
optimizations to kick in.
And as a side effect of that,
because there are routines
that are significantly faster,
do test your software on a G3 as well,
not just your G4 developer machine.
If you have interactive
graphics going on,
which is really nice on a G4,
it may be that you're actually
triggering one of these optimizations
and it's dark slow on a G3.
So it's worth verifying that.
Okay,
now I'm going to do a demo about how to
find performance issues on your system.
Can I get rid of this?
So in your developer folder there is a
little application called Quartz Debug.
It has this colorful window here.
And it enables you to
[Transcript missing]
The first switch here
is flash screen updates,
which tells the Windows Server whenever
it puts something on screen,
flash the area briefly in
yellow to make it very visible
where updates are happening.
So for example,
if I switch over to simple text here,
you see there's some flickering going on,
and when I move the window around you see
there's certain areas that get updated.
Now,
I'm using simple text here because simple
text has an interesting performance bug.
So, when I type here,
You see, it redraws the entire window
for every character I type.
So this mechanism makes it blatantly
visible where your performance
problems are and why your key
repeat rate is really slow.
So this helps a lot in finding
these kinds of problems.
Because the window contents are buffered,
it's now much harder to see.
You no longer see flickering
on screen usually if the
flush is in the right place.
So this is the mechanism to counteract
that effect and tell you what's going on.
Another switch here is
all the flash drawing,
which essentially activates
whenever a primitive is drawn,
either to QuickDraw or to Quartz 2D,
we flash immediately.
This is like the immediate
mode drawing you see on OS 9.
So if you combine that with
the flash screen updates,
then you actually see
every single primitive.
And you see there's a lot
of flickering going on,
the menu gets redrawn,
and stuff like that.
So this makes your system really,
really slow, as you can see.
But it helps you to detect
something like duplicate drawing.
If an area flashes twice, then you know,
well, okay, there is probably
something going wrong here.
Okay, so if I switch back you see there's
the fireworks still going on.
Another thing that Quartz debug
allows you to do is look at
the window list in the system.
These are all the windows
the Windows Server sees.
There are things like size on screen,
size in memory,
position and the name of the
app that produces that window.
For example,
the top three here say Quartz Debug App.
There is one window which is
22 pixels high and has the
width of the entire screen,
which is the menu bar on the top.
There's another window down here
which is 300 by 200 something,
which is this nice little picture here.
And there's a third window,
interestingly.
which is 19 by 19 pixels.
Now this is AppKit caching
that little checkbox here.
So, which is internally implemented
as an off-screen window.
Look at your application using the
"Show Window List" feature here and
find out if there are windows that
are off-screen and if they're big,
try to get rid of them because
you don't really want them
to end up in the swap file.
Okay, that's it for the demo.
If you can go back to the slides.
[Transcript missing]
Before we get to the Q&A,
I just want to take a quick time
to go over the last item on our
roadmap at WWDC relating to graphics.
And we have at 2 o'clock in room
J1 the Graphics Feedback Forum.
This is a very important forum for
you to come and tell us feedback on
Mac OS X's graphics technologies.
It's a good opportunity to query us on to
why certain elements of the architecture
are implemented differently from
what you experience in your Mac OS 9.
Additionally, provide your feedback and
features and things you would
like to see in the system.
If you need my contact information,
I'm TravisBrown@apple.com.
I can be reached.
If you have questions about any of the
2D graphics technologies in Mac OS X,
feel free to send me emails.